---
layout: post
title: "Nov 2021"
author: "Uber Mensch"
tags: Pain, mind, body, struggle, consciousness
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<bold><center> 1 </center></bold>

There might be pleasure from pain but there is also pleasure from relieving the pain.

<bold><center> 2 </center></bold>

Just seeing people struggle doesn't mean they need your help.

<bold><center> 3 </center></bold>

When you are trying to convince someone, you are not trying to sell your vision to them but rather helping them realize why it needs to be part of their vision. 

<bold><center> 4 </center></bold>

Most people are just trying to understand their body constantly without even realizing it.

<bold><center> 5 </center></bold>

You are your mind and body, but at the same time you barely even understand them. 

<bold><center> 6 </center></bold>

Sometimes people think they believe something but what a moment or situation arises, they realize that their body and their mind wants something else. You do not know who you are until the moment comes.

This is why you have to be patient with others because they simply don't even understand themselves and could be battling in different levels with who they are.
<bold><center> 7 </center></bold>

Words are simply tools you use to understand your experience and you're figuring out how to phrase it.  You are the one that brings it into being but are you also what is within? Or just the one that translates it to this world?

You are it but you identify much more with the one that delivers the message.

That's weird because even the outside exterior self that you consider as the transcriber (let's call them that for ease.)  The transcriber can also be the driver because you follow things that you're interested in. Maybe when you're driven towards something its because all your drives are in agreement with what is important to you.

<bold><center> 8 </center></bold>

Everybody deserves to be appreciated because they're all working hard to be themselves. I don't mean that they're struggling because with what they're just experiencing, the enjoyment is the same as the struggle. It is intertwined, and one and the same. 

<bold><center> 9 </center></bold>

The small things are what makes for big things. So value the small if you value the big. It's the same. 

<bold>"Extinction is the rule. Survival is the exception." - Carl Sagan </bold>



