---
layout: post
title: "Looking under the hood - #1"
author: "Uber Mensch"
tags: Pain, mind, body, struggle, consciousness
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<bold><center> 1 </center>
Different thoughts in your head are trying to get into the front at the same time but you'll only have time for one at a time but right when it's over, another thought comes in and another thought comes in and it just keeps going through a lot of thoughts. They are your thoughts but you  can't even keep up with them.

These thoughts aren't necessarily you even though those are part of you and you're kind of choosing what to let in.


<bold><center> 2</center>

What is amazing and magnificent has already happened, and the words are simply trying to capture the glory of it all but sadly the words come after it has passed and also reduces it. 


<bold><center> 3 </center>

You just happened to your families. You're just born into your families and into the present time. 

<bold><center> 4 </center>

All these barriers are holding me back - the constant barriers of how it's perceived by others and what others would think.

<bold><center> 5 </center>

Like branches - the experience is needed in order to create other branches from it. For example, when you make conversations, the conversations then lead to other things -> they are branches even though the branches themselves might not seem like anything on their own. 

<bold><center> 6 </center>

That's how you will get there you just have to ask these I don't know questions.

<bold><center> 7 </center>

A mad man is just somebody who stops making sense in the normal terms; somebody who doesn't speak in terms that can be related to.

<bold><center> 8 </center>

Discussing your thoughts with others is good to make sure that you're not missing anything and you're not making any errors. But in the end you still have to work inside the person that you are.

<bold><center> 9 </center>

I just don't have any appreciation for myself because I'm so used to who I am.

<bold><center> 10 </center>

Some things are understood by your mind faster and it's easily understood by the mind but if it's not written down then you have to go through the steps of getting there again and again.

<bold><center> 11 </center>

Research is just an evolutionary advantage of connecting ideas that evolution itself is trying to connect together and you're making jumps because of the logic and rational thought process behind it.

<bold><center> 12 </center>

You are asking questions that are too big of a jump for you to understand. You have to ask the gray questions i.e. questions that will get you to that journey to answer those big questions because you don't have the threads to connect yet. Don't have the threads that can pull you closer - you need to understand how to answer the little questions first, then get closer to the big ones.

<bold><center> 13 </center>

Just like the stock market nothing makes sense going forward but when you look back at it, it is all rational.

<bold><center> 14 </center>

People are trying to hold you back about thinking how you should think but they are also the hurdles you need to face. They don't know they're the gatekeepers of nothing. They don't know what is right and wrong but they will tell you what you are allowed and not allowed to do - as if they know what it is that you don't know - as if they understand the world better than you.  

<bold><center> 15 </center>

No need to be humble because no one knows any better that's why.

<bold><center> 16 </center>

Idea of re-inventing the wheel. If everyone has to start from the start, it’s a lot difficult but if you are already working with the wheel, you can build on top of that idea. No reason to trial out and fail many times before creating the wheel again.

<bold><center> 17 </center>

People don't know what they're missing until they're shown.

<bold><center> 18 </center>

Medicine at present is a terrible science because it doesn't quite  fully connect the physical and the mental.

<bold><center> 19 </center>

The world is like the blind leading the blind except not really - the person in the front sees a little bit more than the person  in the back and they guide them, but they can't seem too much forward to call themselves the master - they are only simply better than the ones behind them.

<bold><center> 20 </center>

We went towards capitalism and utility  because it's more what we want but it's not with the full understanding of what it is that we are. And to fully understand 2hat we're missing we need to go back and see what the point was of it all to begin. And the reason why you are craving more is because there is something missing.

<bold><center> 21 </center>

Truth is relative but the consistency among the truth observed by the observers are good so that we can build on top of it.

There is relativity of truth but there is also a commonality among observers of the truth and even though the truth is not complete, it can be true to certain group of people like human beings and the consistency of the truth is what makes that truth. This is how evolution works as well because you learn from your mistakes and create a pattern that makes sense and works for you and then builds on top of the ideas before over time. The past is just a series of mistakes that we learned from. 

<bold><center> 22 </center>

The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. This doesn't make sense rationally. 

<bold><center> 23 </center>
How can you learn to be a master?
You have to be able to see all attacks which means you can't get tunnel vision, which means you must not have your mind focused on one thing specifically.

If you re worried about dying, its hard to focus on the big picture by default. But this is an issue if there are multiple problems because then it quickly becomes overwhelming to face - to be able to absorb multiple info simultaneously.

You have to know your variables very well so you know the limits of the chaos; this way you can use it to your advantage to overcome them. You have to know your chaos well. But isn't this just the same as learning how create a hierarchy out of your chaos based on values and connections?

<bold><center> 24 </center>
The less we know about something the more we go into the area of thinking something mystical or mysterious is going on. 

<bold><center> 25 </center>
The idea of Dionysus is the most powerful thing there is because it's both highly destructive and makes life worth living.

<bold><center> 26 </center>
The bigger the emotional pull the harder it is to calm it down. And so even though meditation, which is the acceptance and letting  go off the struggle, is helpful, it might be a lot more harder when you're in a really emotionally heated state. Ultimately at that point you will have to face it - have time let it pass - experience changes the perception - or achieve the end goal of your drive - either of these will help calm it down.  Learning how to control it rather than fight it. Learning to work with it is more ideal in the long term.

<bold><center> 27 </center>
"Unsuccessful attempts are by far the rule; the exceptions are not the secret aim.  

[...]

Let us beware of attributing to it heartlessness or unreason or their opposites: it is neither perfect, nor beautiful, nor noble, nor does it want to become any of these things; in no way does it strive to imitate man! In no way do our aesthetic and moral judgements apply to it! It also has no drive to self-preservation or any other drives; nor does it observe any laws. Let us beware of saying that there are laws in nature. There are only necessities: there is no one who commands, no one who obeys, no one who transgresses. Once you know that there are no purposes, you also know that there is no accident; for only against a world of purposes does the word 'accident' have a meaning. Let us beware of saying that death is opposed to life. The living is only a form of what is dead, and a very rare form. Let us beware of thinking that the world eternally creates new things. There are no eternally enduring substances; matter is as much of an error as the god of the Eleatics." 
- Nietzsche The Gay Science (109)

Success is the exception. Ignorance is bliss? Every being that has life will die at some point. There is no purpose ordained by nature. Progress and evolution is the anomaly. Death and disorder is the norm. Entropy always increases with time. 
What does that mean for us? How do you get rid of pain? Pain and suffering is the default of life. Death is inevitable. You should feel nothing about letting go, because that is the norm. 

Progress reflects the millions of failure before it. Progress is made with failures behind it. You are not guaranteed anything, but to try and get more out of life. Your likelihood of meeting failure in this attempt is a lot higher than your chance of success - this is only true if you attempt to go for the boundaries. If you stay within what is already known, you are likely to succeed based on how many failures and understanding from those failures preceded that moment. 

<bold><center> 28 </center>
Connotations can make music better or worse as well. 

<bold><center> 29 </center>
Capitalism is the system that reflects nature. Brute truth of - he who survives and thrives in the system, wins all. Socialism is an attempt of people to reflect mercy on others. It sees its own suffering in others, and tries to lend a hand, but helping others, holds us from focusing on ourselves. In the real world, this is more likely to be bad. However, since we have a lot more people trying to figure things out, a well worked social system is more successful than a capitalist on his own. 

So what drives us? Survival does. Why do we want to survive? 

Will to power or will to survive? Will to power is the idea of controlling the world around us. To ultimately be able to change it to our liking - every part of it. History shows that this is a failed idea. However, like socialism, the point is to keep trying to perfect the system until it happens. The point is to slowly figure out how. It is a fight that has gone for so long, and has found some ounce of success from countless deaths before. Its not "I stand on the shoulder of giants" (Isaac Newton), but I stand on a mountain of death of people and their failures. I have learned from them or I need to. But first I have to know what to work towards, and have a reason to want that. 

<bold><center> 29 </center>
Its important to stay positive, and try to make everything around you positive. Why? Because the truth is failure. Truth is that everything withers away. There are more reasons to give up than to keep going. 

So the goal should be to connect and work towards this truth. Leave kids behind so that they might carry on the journey after you, or at the very least, create more kids to keep the species alive. So you have to have kids, especially if you think you are going to fail, and its high chance that you will fail. Success is rare. 

There is no savior and there is no solution, than the one that is created by us. 

The goal is to be ahead of the chaos. This is why human beings procreate with the purpose of creating a lot of variances, and that's why we all have different minds, because all those different choices and different genetics, increases our chance of survival. It is important to create more kids, because it increases the chance of life surviving. Animals are just another form of us. We just are the most successful so far from all of life's attempts. Even though there are other species that can survive better than us, we did mediocre with survival but our combined effort made us really great at figuring out how to survive with resources, and not just that - thrive in it. However, we have to be VERY careful using up resources with no plan ahead of us. Creating the ideal situation for us, is a lot harder, than to use it all up. This is why we should be careful about making big changes with regards to life (genetics, environment, etc) because the odds are much more likely that it will lead to our demise. Non-living is the norm. We should never forget this when we try something new. Be very careful changing this rapidly and using up resources rapidly. 

<bold><center> 30 </center>
For us who are destined to not get ahead (at least not in the near horizon) the best idea is to focus on the now. Now is the only certain moment. The next one could be anything from earth quakes to missiles, to any other randomness. Now is the only given. For us, it’s the journey that matters, because we are not very likely to reach the destination. So then we must focus on making the most of the now and most of the journey (which is the series of now). 

<bold><center> 31 </center>
Can you ever get ahead of chaos? That is what drives us. To try and attain this goal that is the most unlikeliest of all things. However, nothing in this world is random. It is just highly complex that we cannot predict. There are a lot of variability in the problems we face on our own, and so to get ahead, you have to solve the problem all variables in existence, and then predict it. It is the most impossible task. 

<bold><center> 32 </center>
The ultimately purpose of our lives, was staring at us this all time. It is to become God. The one who controls all. We idolize those that we want to be like, and God is the highest idol that exists. Specifically the Christian God because he has no faults. That's likely why he rose above all other belief systems, because he represents all that is idolized by the human species as a whole. It’s the common denominator. 

The Bible already says this because when we know about the tree of knowledge, we became Gods. That started the path of mankind and separated us from animals. Ignorance was living in Eden. However, the Bible predicts that we will become Gods, but how powerful? Can we rule the choas? Maybe but its far from an actual possibility until we get more closer. Who said God was one person? God could be many - especially if that is what requires us to be ahead of chaos. More of us = more chance of survival = more chance that we become Gods. We are like the people thrown into the fire, and what remains after each set, is what makes us closer to becoming Gods. 

What to from here? Now that we know that our journey is to become a God, and that's our purpose, what to do now? Realize that death is the more common possibility. Failure is the most likely ending. All the odds are against us than anything ever in this world. 

What can we do? Realize this and work forward. We are one, and our strength lies in helping one another. But it needs to come with the realization that a lot of us would need to die. To save all, is a bad idea because that will cause us all to die. Understanding the ruthlessness of nature is key, so that we don't forget what it is that we are set out to do, and we don't forget the odds of survival. We need to save as much as we can, when possible, so that we have the variability to survive and we have the different conscious people to help devise the next step and understand where to from here. These are multiple people because they need to be fighting on all frontiers - from top to bottom and from whats in to what is outside us. To win over chaos, we need to understand and overcome all. Even if we cannot individually survive, the knowledge must exist and be understood by those left behind, so that they may continue on this journey. 

<bold><center> 33 </center>
Our brains cannot simply fathom this amount of complexity all at once. We can teach it slowly  over time, and the more knowledge it has from all our past readings and its own experience, can help it. However, there is a good chance that we will forget it still, and our brains cannot ultimately handle this vast amount of information. Remember, the brain's capacity was made limited, and its also supposed to grow, and so ultimately it might. Or we might augment ourselves (with countless people dying and having different levels upgrades for the technology) with technology, so that we are able to contain all this information. There are ones among us that have memories of everything picture perfect, and so maybe that’s an evolution that might stick over time, if it becomes our bottle neck in the future. Those who remember or know more, can survive onwards. 

Either way, with the tools we have from evolution, or tools we create to make us better, this will hopefully take place and improve our chance of survival. We cannot communicate easily and fast enough, what we already know, and so computer augmentation might be better eventually for it. But we would have to have biotech because it needs to be truly one with the rest, and that’s going to take a long while. We need to know more about ourselves, to truly add to it. This will take time as well. 

<bold><center> 34 </center>
Chaos is the fire that consumes all - it’s the destructive force. Time isn't the destroyer, but chaos. Time just makes it clear that chaos wins every time. 

<bold><center> 35 </center>
So priority number one is health. Both inside and out. Second most is your family, because it represents those who are most like you, and your tribe - those that cared for you and your health, and those you cared for. These are the closest circle. You should aim to increase your circle because you get more chance of survival for yourself, i.e. more people keeping an eye out and people who you can get information that is vital for your survival. 

The problem with not being able to communicate is seen in dating world as well. You can't know who is truly good and bad and so its trial and guess work. Physical attraction and sexual gratification takes priority, because its harder to easily communicate our minds. Ideally it will be the person as a whole. The physical and the sexual traits will be simply one of the many features sought after. 

Games also show this. You can go on your own and you do well, but the team loses, which causes you to lose. If you play as the team, then people care for each other, more likely for you to dominate other forces. 

<bold><center> 36 </center>
People who fight an idea too extremely are bound to go to the other end.

<bold><center> 37 </center>
The reason why it's important to realize that failure is the norm is because then you won't be upset by the injustices and the feeling that the world owes you something because the world is unjust and you are meant to fail. So there's nothing to be upset about because it's the norm.

"Death is a cure to the illness known as life." - Socrates

<bold><center> 38 </center>
Success with the unknown requires a lot of failures. Failures can be replaced with knowledge because the knowledge required failures before it. The more that is known, the less the need for failures. 
Just because knowledge exists doesn't mean that failures will reduce unless the knowledge is utilized.
The more society is created and knowledge is known, the more it becomes a bubble where the success and failure rates are based on the knowledge understood and what's not. 

With the truly unknown, it is highly unlikely to be successful with the first try. In fact failure is the norm. But as more information  is known, the failure rate decreases and the success rate increases.  The more to the boundaries you go, the failure rate increases.
This is why people who are seniors or people who are traditionalists are respected because they know how to reduce the failures within the bubble that exists. But they are  useless when it comes to pushing into boundaries because they know the risk of failure and they are too afraid to do it themselves. But the young who are still learning without the lack of knowledge and by reproducing the failures, they are used to pushing into the chaos of the unknown.
If the failures of one's life and the lessons learned are not passed on to the next generation then genetics does part of that but it would be useful or ideal if the person actually passes on their lessons as well. 

<bold><center> 39 </center>
It's impossible for one person to understand the universe as a whole that's why there are so many of us because then each one of us can delve deep into their areas and specialize and learn the most out of nature. Since knowledge is the way you counteract the failures, the importance of passing on knowledge becomes more important. And therefore you should write a book because what you know might be useful in helping focusing on how to make the most and survive. 

<bold><center> 40 </center>
Music is a way to act out the flow.

<bold><center> 41 </center>
Apollo needs to be within you to face the unknown because Dionysus is a part of the unknown but on its own is destructive but with Apollonian, it is creative. Donysus doesn't really care about self preservation. It's a dance with chaos. It will kill you on its own but with apollo, it's creative. Apollo makes it optimal. The more perfectly apollo follows, the most you make out of the creativity or you don't because you are scared of crossing the boundaries. 

<bold><center> 42 </center>

Mistakes

When you make mistakes, there are two main possibilities. One is that the mistake was made over an area that was known and the other is if a mistake was made for an area unknown. 

When it is over an area that is known, then that means that idea needs more reinforcement through the failures. 

When it's an area unknown then that's just the learning curve. You don't want to stop until you learn all the variabilities because that stalls the progress.  You also don't want to jump too quickly because then you make too many mistakes. However mistakes are the norm when it's unknown and therefore you will have to be making more mistakes if you're trying to make big progress and don't want take it way too slow. The ideal case is probably to make a lot of mistakes as long as the learning from those mistakes is also taking place. This is the quickest way to learn the problem. But depending on whether it's a delicate matter then you can't afford to make a lot of mistakes to learn it quickly. So when you're talking about what's optimal, it's dependent on the situation because the cost of each situation is going to be different. The cost of losing a dollar or a game is much less than breaking your bone by falling. The history has different effect as well. If you lost a game, it matters to win but you don't care too much if you lose again. But if you fall when you are older, then it matters very much to win and you don't ever want to get close to losing again. 

This is solved by understanding why the problem happened in the first place. And paying more attention to that particular area of the issue for at least a little while to make sure that it never happens again. This is why you pay more attention when you do it the firt few times especially depending on how big the problem was and how much it cost you. If it was a costly major problem, that there's a fear of attempting again for the fear of failure again. And if it's a costly minor problem, you might jump in without even thinking twice - bounce back to it.  Can you afford to make that mistake? Cost leads to rumination, rumination effects fear.

<bold><center> 43 </center>
Pleasure is the short term reward for doing the right thing that is helpful for survival. The most pleasurable things is in the order of importance for survival: Sex, food, and shows/movies which are stories that hold knowledge/lessons.  
